# ZKPs-and-Privacy-Rights-in-the-Digital-Age
This project will develop a policy brief that spells out the importance of encryption for preserving rights to expression and association, arguing that zero knowledge proofs can provide a valuable path forward for regulatory compliance that simultaneously preserves the privacy of individual network users.

This is a joint effort between Eric Alston (CU Boulder) and Sofia Cossar (BlockchainGov) each of whom has published academically on blockchain governance (among other areas). While ZKPs have considerable applications in blockchain contexts, their value is not limited to blockchain networks, such that the project is likely to have beneficial scope beyond blockchain-specific applications, which the brief and ultimate article will naturally cover.

Given sufficient traction, the authors intend to turn this brief into a full-fledged law review article, with presentations at academic conferences and discussions with European and U.S. regulators.

Our policy brief will not argue that the government never has legitimate investigatory motives. Instead, it is motivated by a recognition that the natural stance of such a regulator is to demand as much access to information as possible, and it is up to concerned citizens to resist this inevitable creep. But if motives exist that are legitimate, and the alternative is more distortionary and privacy-infringing legal change, this poses a challenge for those who value the affordances cryptography does provide them in their correspondence with their loved ones and business associates alike. Fortunately, innovations have emerged which enable the revelation of certain attributes of data while preventing the full disclosure of the underlying data itself. This technology relies on what are called zero knowledge proofs, and has already been applied in several areas that reveal exactly the promising potential of this technology for preserving privacy while displaying a sufficient level of compliance with the law that means further scrutiny of the underlying data is not warranted. Our policy brief will explore the legislative and regulatory threats to encryption that have emerged in recent years, why these government responses are likely to prove ineffective and destructive to ordinary individuals’ privacy, before reviewing the already-existing applications of zero knowledge technology that present a promising path forward.
